Hello, and welcome to the Linux Basics course. My name is Michael Forrester,
and welcome to KodeKloud. Why learn Linux? Why do we care about operating systems?
Why do we have a Linux Basics course? How does this relate to DevOps?
So, Stack Overflow has some insights,
and these are verified by other platforms on the internet that Linux is by far
the most predominant server operating system used in the world.
This includes Linux and all of its flavors.
All of the 500 fastest supercomputers in the world, they run on Linux,
96.3% of the top 1 million websites that we go
to, they run on Linux. And, oddly enough,
86% of all smartphones are powered by Linux, as of this recording.
Now, in the cloud and the DevOps world,
many of the new tools that have come out within the last
five to seven years, or even more recently,
were developed and used in Linux environments before they made it to any other
operating system. This includes Windows,
which is the other server operating system, and Mac,
which isn't really used as a server. For example,
containerization tools like Docker was only available on Linux-based systems
for many, many years before it got to Windows support. Similarly,
automation and configuration management tools like Ansible required to be
installed on a Linux environment in order to be used. And so, even though,
for example,
Ansible can manage Windows Systems as a target for configuration,
a Linux system is required to be the actual controller for Linux if you decide
to centralize it. Now, in case of container orchestration tools like
Kubernetes, for example, which does container orchestration, right?
In case of using things like Kubernetes, the primary nodes, the control plane,
the master nodes for
Kubernetes can actually only be Linux systems.
And the documentation as of this recording says that there are no plans to have
a Windows-only Kubernetes cluster as of this recording,
which means you're always going to need at least Linux to actually run the control
plane even if your data plane has Windows.
So, when you go through our Kubernetes series of courses and you're setting up a
Kubernetes cluster,
it's all done on Linux because you're going to have to do it on Linux.
This is true for almost all of the certification exams, right?
The Kubernetes and the RedHat Ansible certification exams, for example,
are all done on Linux systems.
So, if you plan to learn these tools and technologies and you want to get yourself
certified,
it is extremely important to have the knowledge of the basics of the Linux
operating system.
So, the DevOps trend in the IT industry is growing exponentially,
and you're going to see the demand for DevOps and cloud engineers just
skyrocket.
So, every new job position that you see now requires at least the basic knowledge
of DevOps tooling, the basic knowledge of Linux,
basic knowledge of cloud, with notable exceptions, right?
And so this demand is just expected to grow. This is not going to go down,
it's just going to go up. As more and more organizations are adopting
DevOps and running their workloads in the cloud,
fundamental understanding of Linux as an operating system is a must.
And, especially, if you've been working in a Windows-dominated environment,
some of the challenges that we run into when people transition from Windows to
Linux is things like
they have trouble navigating the Linux command line interface.
There's a lack of experience with the Linux command line.
And so troubleshooting is particularly
troublesome. Navigating through directory structures, working with files,
manipulating files, editing files on the command line.
These are all problems that students have run into.
Other issues that students run into,
such as like not having experience with the VI editor,
which is pretty much everywhere,
understanding the differences between the different flavors of Linux, handling
errors during the installation of applications or even the tools that you use to
install those applications,
including things like dependencies and how to configure remote software
repositories. And then also networking in DNS and Linux can be
different depending on the flavor.
Other times, the trouble that you run into when students make that transition is
issues with permissions, things like security, AppArmor, SELinux.
When do you use sudo? How do you configure the permissions? What is it,
what does a sticky bit even mean? Right? And, last but not least,
the most common challenge around learning Linux is that
we don't have sufficient hands-on experience.
There's no opportunity to get into the space.
So, you've got the difficulty of transitioning from Windows and not understanding
the command line and not understanding the concept,
but then getting hands-on is the reason why we built this course.
We want to help you get your foundations right.
Understanding your operating system, which for most of us is Linux,
and for some of you, maybe Windows, is one of the key fundamental skills of a
DevOps engineer. It is a different kind of course. And here's why.
It's not just because of the hands-on experience and all the things we just
talked about. I have a question for you, though, that will help clear this up.
This course is different because, you know, have you read the books
The Phoenix Project and The Unicorn Project? Oh, you haven't?
If you're going to be in DevOps,
reading The Phoenix Project and The Unicorn Project are probably going to be
essential. If you have, you know they're amazing. If you haven't,
then you know that,
you should know that it's a novel about IT and DevOps, and I highly recommend it
to anyone working in IT.
But the interesting thing about these books is that they follow a slightly
different format from any other technical books you might encounter.
These two books,
The Phoenix Project and The Unicorn Project will take you through a journey of
an IT manager and a software developer and their perspectives and challenges
on the development and the deployment of the same project,
but with a very tight deadline.
So, it happens in slightly different perspectives.
These two books describe how they overcome these challenges by implementing a
better working culture between different teams,
by evaluating and implementing different processes and by using tools to
automate tasks for both speed and consistency. They also,
since their books about DevOps just happened to talk about DevOps
principles, like continual improvement, lean thinking, system staking,
it's really good.
So, the story format of these books helps us to understand not just what DevOps
is, but more importantly the common whys of DevOps, for example,
why do we need to change our process?
Why do we need to implement a better working culture?
Why do we need these DevOps tools? What outcome are we seeking?
Why are these people involved? Why is this system constrained system?
Questions that are commonly asked, like, why do we need to be collaborative?
Why do we need to talk to people, right? Why do we need to automate this?
All really important questions in a DevOps culture.
So, as a result of that story-driven format, we decided that our next course,
which is this course that you're taking right now, has to be in a story format.
That way you'll know a context,
the one that's given the story and why you need to learn certain concepts as
a whole. So, in this course, you're going to join Bob,
who is a brand new intern at a fictional company named Caleston Technologies.
Now, Bob,
the intern, is tasked to build and deploy an application for a client demo
that, again, it's going to be in front of a client.
Bob is new to Linux and faces numerous challenges while working on his Linux
laptop and his Linux servers. So, what you'll do is that, in this course,
you're going to join Bob in learning Linux,
both through his eyes and throughout this course.
So, you'll see how Bob explores the Linux operating system. You'll see him
explore the terminal, and you'll start learning about the shell,
which allows you to interact with the Linux kernel.
You'll learn about core concepts of Linux,
which are essential to understand how the Linux systems work.
You're also going to be exploring a package management solution in different
flavors of Linux. So, you get to see the different package managers,
and this is what helps Bob to install and manage the required software on his
system. Towards the end,
Bob has enough experience in Linux to explore the command line even further.
So, you learn about different types of text editors,
you learn how to manipulate files,
you learn about that sticky bit that I was talking about earlier, right?
And then during a security review call, which happens in our story,
Bob learns about the importance of security in Linux.
He learns about file-level security. He learns about setting permissions,
he learns about enabling systems at Linux for security. Now,
while configuring applications,
Bob is unable to connect to a database server from his laptop,
and he learns how to troubleshoot new networking connectivity issues with
assistance from his colleagues. At another point in the story,
Bob runs out of space on his laptop.
So, now, he has to learn how to configure storage on a Linux environment.
He learns how to format disks, he learns how to mount them,
as well as learning how to create logical volume groups, which is
a storage construct inside Linux.
Bob also at one point wants to run a custom application to like start up on the
boot of his Linux laptop. So, he learns about System D has kind of
an initializer for Linux and all the services that it can start.
And what happens is that all of these skills that you walk through in the story,
towards the end of the story,
they help him deliver his projects towards the end.
So, it basically enables him to do the demo in question.
All of our lectures use visualization techniques and storytelling and analogies
to simplify complex topics. These are going to make the concepts that we teach you
not only easy to grasp,
but it'll actually help you to remember them in the long term.
Each lecture in this course is followed by a hands-on lab, so that way,
you will learn, right, conceptualize, and then do, right?
And this is all going to happen right up in your browser.
So, there's no hassle of setting up environments to practice.
You start practicing seconds after the lecture is complete, again,
with the goal of this driving reinforcement.
The labs are fun to work with and they give you challenges to solve.
And once you solve these challenges where you put your, or
submit your solution,
we're going to validate your work and give you feedback on where you were right and
where you went off the rails a little bit, where you went wrong.
If you're not sure how to solve a problem,
we have hints right in the lab that allow you to kind of get guided
towards the solution. And the most important thing while learning Linux,
especially the Linux command line, is practice.
So, the hundreds of questions that are in our labs throughout this course are
going to give you enough hands-on practice to be very,
very confident in Linux and Linux basics.
And here you are already ready to take the course. So, if you're ready,
let's dive in. Let's get started.